.TH BOOTSTRAP 1 "2026-05-22" "SCD Reporting v0.1.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
bootstrap \- first-time setup and development server launcher for SCD Reporting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./bootstrap.sh
[\fB\-\-admin\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR]
[\fB\-\-anthropic\-key\fR \fIKEY\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-server\fR]
[\fB\-\-skip\-npm\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bootstrap.sh
prepares the local development environment for SCD Reporting.
It creates a Python virtual environment, installs all Python and Node
dependencies, applies Django database migrations, seeds the taxonomy
and initial admin account, and then starts the Django development server.
.PP
The script must be run from the repository root.
It requires Python 3.12 or newer on the system PATH.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-admin\-password " PASS"
Password for the initial admin account created by
.BR seed_admin .
If omitted the seed step is skipped.
May also be supplied via the
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-\-anthropic\-key " KEY"
Anthropic API key used by the AI report summary feature.
May also be supplied via the
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
environment variable.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-server
Perform all setup steps but do not start the development server.
Useful for CI or container initialization.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-npm
Skip the
.B npm install
step for Tailwind CSS.
Use this when Node.js is not available; Tailwind will fall back to the
Play CDN in development mode.
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
Provides the admin password without a command-line argument.
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Provides the Anthropic API key without a command-line argument.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .venv/
Python virtual environment created (or reused) by this script.
.TP
.I requirements-dev.txt
Python development dependencies installed into the virtual environment.
.TP
.I theme/static_src/package.json
Node dependencies installed by
.BR npm\ install .
.TP
.I db.sqlite3
SQLite database created by
.B manage.py migrate
during setup.
.SH EXAMPLES
Basic setup with an admin password:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./bootstrap.sh --admin-password secret
.EE
.RE
.PP
Full setup with an Anthropic key, then exit without starting the server:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./bootstrap.sh --admin-password secret --anthropic-key sk-ant-... --no-server
.EE
.RE
.PP
Using environment variables:
.PP
.RS
.EX
export SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=secret
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
./bootstrap.sh
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build-docker (1),
.BR generate-helm-chart (1)
