.TH BUILD-DOCKER 1 "2026-05-22" "SCD Reporting v0.1.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
build-docker \- build multi-architecture Docker images for SCD Reporting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/build-docker.sh
[\fB\-r\fR \fIREPO\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fITAG\fR]
[\fB\-\-platforms\fR \fIPLATFORMS\fR]
[\fB\-\-push\fR]
[\fB\-\-load\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-cache\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B build-docker.sh
builds the SCD Reporting web container image for multiple CPU
architectures using
.BR docker\ buildx .
By default it targets both
.B linux/amd64
and
.B linux/arm64
so that the same image runs on x86 servers and Apple Silicon development
machines without modification.
.PP
If the active buildx builder does not support multi-platform builds (the
default builder typically does not), the script automatically creates and
activates a builder named
.B multiarch
using the
.B docker-container
driver.
.PP
Git metadata (commit hash, commit date, and tag) is baked into the image
via
.BR ARG /\c
.B ENV
instructions in the Dockerfile so that the running container can report
its own version.
.PP
When neither
.B \-\-push
nor
.B \-\-load
is specified the image is built and cached but not exported anywhere.
This is useful for pre-validating a build in CI before a separate push step.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-r " REPO"
Docker image repository.
.br
Default:
.B docker.io/normanajn/scd-reporting-web
.TP
.BI \-t " TAG"
Image tag.
Defaults to the git tag on HEAD (from
.BR "git describe \-\-tags \-\-exact\-match" ),
or
.B latest
if HEAD carries no tag.
A versioned tag always also produces a
.B :latest
tag on the same manifest.
.TP
.BI \-\-platforms " PLATFORMS"
Comma-separated list of
.BR docker\ buildx
platform specifiers.
.br
Default:
.B linux/amd64,linux/arm64
.TP
.B \-\-push
Push the built manifest to the registry after building.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-load .
.TP
.B \-\-load
Load the image into the local Docker daemon.
Only valid when a single platform is specified.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-push .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cache
Pass
.B \-\-no\-cache
to
.BR docker\ buildx\ build ,
forcing a full rebuild from scratch.
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Build and push using the current git tag:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/build-docker.sh --push
.EE
.RE
.PP
Load an x86-only image into the local daemon for testing:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/build-docker.sh --platforms linux/amd64 --load
.EE
.RE
.PP
Push to a custom registry with an explicit tag:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/build-docker.sh -r ghcr.io/myorg/scd-reporting-web -t v1.0.0 --push
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR docker-buildx (1),
.BR generate-helm-chart (1),
.BR bootstrap (1)
