.TH GENERATE-ARCHITECTURE-DIAGRAM 1 "2026-05-22" "SCD Reporting v0.1.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
generate-architecture-diagram \- render the SCD Reporting application architecture as a PDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 scripts/generate_architecture_diagram.py
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B generate_architecture_diagram.py
produces an A3-landscape PDF diagram of the SCD Reporting application
architecture using
.BR reportlab .
The diagram shows:
.PP
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
External services (browser, Fermilab SSO, Google OAuth, GitHub API,
Anthropic API).
.IP \(bu 2
Docker Compose services (Caddy reverse proxy, Django/Gunicorn web
container, PostgreSQL database) with internal component breakdowns.
.IP \(bu 2
Named Docker volumes (staticfiles, media, pgdata, caddy-data,
caddy-config) and which services read or write each one.
.IP \(bu 2
Arrows indicating HTTP traffic, database connections, OAuth callbacks,
API calls, and CI/CD image build flows.
.IP \(bu 2
A colour-coded legend distinguishing container-baked assets, shared
volumes, databases, the reverse proxy, and external services.
.RE
.PP
The output file is written to
.I SCD-Reporting-Architecture.pdf
in the repository root, overwriting any previous version.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B reportlab
Python PDF generation library.
Install with:
.B pip install reportlab
.SH FILES
.TP
.I SCD-Reporting-Architecture.pdf
Output file written to the repository root.
.SH EXAMPLES
Regenerate the architecture diagram:
.PP
.RS
.EX
python3 scripts/generate_architecture_diagram.py
.EE
.RE
.PP
Or from within an activated virtual environment:
.PP
.RS
.EX
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/generate_architecture_diagram.py
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bootstrap (1)
