.TH REGISTER-EC2-ROUTE53 1 "2026-05-22" "SCD Reporting v0.1.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
register-ec2-route53 \- attach an Elastic IP to an EC2 instance and register it in Route 53
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/register-ec2-route53.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B register-ec2-route53.sh
automates the three-step process of making an EC2 instance reachable at
a stable public DNS name:
.PP
.RS
.IP 1. 3
Allocate a new AWS Elastic IP address (or reuse an existing allocation).
.IP 2.
Associate the Elastic IP with the target EC2 instance.
.IP 3.
Upsert an A record in the specified Route 53 hosted zone pointing the
DNS name to the Elastic IP.
.RE
.PP
The script blocks until the Route 53 change has propagated (via
.BR "aws route53 wait resource-record-sets-changed" ).
.PP
Configuration is provided by editing variables at the top of the script
before running.
All required variables are validated at startup; the script exits with
an error if any still contain placeholder values.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Edit the following variables at the top of the script:
.TP
.B AWS_REGION
AWS region containing the EC2 instance.
.br
Example:
.B us-east-1
.TP
.B INSTANCE_ID
EC2 instance ID to attach the Elastic IP to.
.br
Example:
.B i-0123456789abcdef0
.TP
.B HOSTED_ZONE_ID
Route 53 hosted zone ID for the target domain.
.br
Example:
.B Z1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ
.TP
.B RECORD_NAME
Fully-qualified DNS name to register (trailing dot optional).
.br
Example:
.B scd-reporting.fnal.gov
.TP
.B TTL
DNS record time-to-live in seconds.
.br
Default:
.B 300
.TP
.B EXISTING_ALLOCATION_ID
Set to an existing Elastic IP allocation ID to reuse it instead of
allocating a new address.
Leave empty to allocate a new Elastic IP.
.TP
.B ALLOW_REASSOCIATION
Set to
.B true
to allow moving an Elastic IP that is already associated with another
resource.
Default:
.B false
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.BR aws (1)
AWS CLI v2, configured with credentials that have
.BR ec2:AllocateAddress ,
.BR ec2:AssociateAddress ,
.BR ec2:DescribeAddresses ,
.BR ec2:DescribeInstances ,
.BR route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets ,
and
.B route53:GetChange
permissions.
.SH EXAMPLES
After filling in all variables, run:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/register-ec2-route53.sh
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aws (1),
.BR update-okd-permissions (1)
