.TH SCD-POST-ENTRY-JSON 1 "2026-06-05" "SCD Reporting" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
scd-post-entry-json \- post a work entry to SCD Activity Reporting from a JSON object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scd-post-entry-json
[\fB\-u\fR \fIURL\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fITOKEN\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scd-post-entry-json
reads a JSON object from
.I FILE
(or standard input when
.I FILE
is omitted or
.BR \- )
and POSTs it to the
.B /api/entries/
endpoint of an SCD Activity Reporting instance using Bearer token authentication.
.PP
On success the created entry number and URL are printed to standard output.
Validation errors from the server are printed to standard error and the
process exits with status 1.
.PP
Configuration is resolved in order: command-line flag > environment variable >
config file > error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I FILE
Path to a JSON file containing the entry object.
Defaults to standard input (\fB\-\fR).
.TP
.BI \-u " URL"
Base URL of the SCD Reporting instance (e.g.
.BR https://scd-reporting.fnal.gov ).
Overrides
.B SCD_URL
and the config file.
.TP
.BI \-t " TOKEN"
API Bearer token obtained from
.BR Profile\ >\ API\ Token
in the web UI.
Overrides
.B SCD_TOKEN
and the config file.
.TP
.BI \-c " FILE"
Path to the YAML configuration file.
Default:
.IR ~/.config/scd-reporting/config.yaml .
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the resolved endpoint URL and the JSON payload to standard output
without sending any HTTP request.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH "JSON FIELDS"
The JSON object must be a
.B dict
with the following fields:
.TP
.B title
(string, required) Short title for the entry.
.TP
.B description
(string, required) Full description; Markdown is supported.
.TP
.B project
(string, required) Project slug or integer primary key.
.TP
.B category
(string, required) Category slug or integer primary key.
.TP
.B period_start
(string, required) Period start date in
.B YYYY-MM-DD
format.
.TP
.B period_end
(string, required) Period end date in
.B YYYY-MM-DD
format.
.TP
.B period_kind
(string, optional) One of
.BR today ,
.BR week ,
.BR fortnight ,
.BR month ,
.BR custom .
Defaults to
.BR custom .
.TP
.B group
(string, optional) Work group slug or id.
.TP
.B lab_priority
(string, optional) Lab priority slug or id.
.TP
.B tags
(array of strings, optional) Tag names.
.TP
.B is_private ", " is_critical ", " is_highlight ", " is_division_head_only
(boolean, optional) Entry flags; default
.BR false .
.TP
.B highlight_stars
(integer 0–5, optional) Number of highlight stars; only meaningful when
.B is_highlight
is
.BR true .
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"
.B scd-post-entry-json
reads
.I ~/.config/scd-reporting/config.yaml
(or the path given by
.BR \-c )
for default values.
The relevant keys are:
.PP
.RS
.EX
url:   https://scd-reporting.fnal.gov
token: <your-api-token>
.EE
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B SCD_URL
Base URL of the SCD Reporting instance.  Overrides the config file value.
.TP
.B SCD_TOKEN
API Bearer token.  Overrides the config file value.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Entry created successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Request failed, validation error, authentication error, or bad input.
.SH EXAMPLES
Post an entry from a JSON file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
scd-post-entry-json entry.json
.EE
.RE
.PP
Post from stdin using environment variables for credentials:
.PP
.RS
.EX
export SCD_URL=https://scd-reporting.fnal.gov
export SCD_TOKEN=abcdef1234...
echo '{"title":"Weekly update","description":"...","project":"mu2e-daq",
      "category":"software-development","period_kind":"week",
      "period_start":"2026-05-26","period_end":"2026-06-01"}' \\
  | scd-post-entry-json
.EE
.RE
.PP
Inspect the payload without posting:
.PP
.RS
.EX
scd-post-entry-json --dry-run entry.json
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scd-post-entry (1),
.BR scd-post-entry-json.sh (1)
