.TH SCD-POST-ENTRY-JSON.SH 1 "2026-06-05" "SCD Reporting" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
scd-post-entry-json.sh \- post a work entry to SCD Activity Reporting from a JSON file (bash)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scd-post-entry-json.sh
[\fB\-u\fR \fIURL\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fITOKEN\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scd-post-entry-json.sh
is a bash script that reads a JSON object from
.I FILE
(or standard input when
.I FILE
is omitted or
.BR \- )
and POSTs it to the
.B /api/entries/
endpoint of an SCD Activity Reporting instance using Bearer token authentication.
.PP
The script requires
.BR curl (1).
If
.BR jq (1)
is installed, response output is pretty-printed; otherwise the raw JSON body
is echoed.
.PP
Configuration is resolved in order: command-line flag > environment variable >
config file > error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I FILE
Path to a JSON file containing the entry object.
Defaults to standard input (\fB\-\fR).
.TP
.BI \-u " URL"
Base URL of the SCD Reporting instance (e.g.
.BR https://scd-reporting.fnal.gov ).
Overrides
.B SCD_URL
and the config file.
.TP
.BI \-t " TOKEN"
API Bearer token obtained from
.BR Profile\ >\ API\ Token
in the web UI.
Overrides
.B SCD_TOKEN
and the config file.
.TP
.BI \-c " FILE"
Path to the YAML configuration file.
Default:
.IR ~/.config/scd-reporting/config.yaml .
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the resolved endpoint URL and the JSON payload without sending any
HTTP request.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH "JSON FIELDS"
See
.BR scd-post-entry-json (1)
for the full list of supported fields.  Required:
.BR title ,
.BR description ,
.BR project ,
.BR category ,
.B period_start ,
.BR period_end .
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"
.B scd-post-entry-json.sh
reads
.I ~/.config/scd-reporting/config.yaml
for default
.B url
and
.B token
values (simple
.B key: value
format; no PyYAML required).
.PP
.RS
.EX
url:   https://scd-reporting.fnal.gov
token: <your-api-token>
.EE
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B SCD_URL
Base URL of the SCD Reporting instance.  Overrides the config file value.
.TP
.B SCD_TOKEN
API Bearer token.  Overrides the config file value.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Entry created successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Request failed, validation error, authentication error, or bad input.
.SH EXAMPLES
Post an entry from a JSON file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/scd-post-entry-json.sh entry.json
.EE
.RE
.PP
Post from stdin with explicit credentials:
.PP
.RS
.EX
echo '{"title":"Weekly update","description":"...","project":"mu2e-daq",
      "category":"software-development","period_kind":"week",
      "period_start":"2026-05-26","period_end":"2026-06-01"}' \\
  | scd-post-entry-json.sh -u https://scd-reporting.fnal.gov -t "$TOKEN"
.EE
.RE
.PP
Pipe the output of another tool into the script:
.PP
.RS
.EX
generate-entry-json.py | scd-post-entry-json.sh
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scd-post-entry (1),
.BR scd-post-entry-json (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR jq (1)
