.TH START\-DOCKER 1 "2026-06-09" "SCD Reporting v1.0.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
start\-docker \- build and start SCD Reporting in Docker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/start\-docker
[\fB\-\-quick\fR]
[\fB\-\-build\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-tail\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B start\-docker
starts SCD Reporting inside Docker in one of two modes:
.TP
.B Full stack (default)
Starts the full
.B docker compose
stack: the Django/Gunicorn web container, a PostgreSQL 16 database, and a
Caddy HTTPS reverse proxy.
Requires Docker Compose v2 and a populated
.I .env
file (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT ).
.TP
.B Quick mode
.RB ( \-\-quick )
Starts a single Docker container using SQLite for storage and Django's
development settings.
Useful for smoke-testing the image without a full compose setup.
Requires only
.B docker
— no compose plugin needed.
.PP
If the
.I scd\-reporting\-web
image does not yet exist it is built automatically before starting.
Pass
.B \-\-build
to force a rebuild even when the image already exists.
.PP
The active mode is recorded in
.I scripts/.scd\-docker.mode
so that
.BR stop\-docker (1)
knows how to stop the right set of containers.
.PP
Environment variables are loaded from a
.I .env
file in the project root if one is present.
Variables already exported in the shell take precedence.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-quick
Start a single container using SQLite and development settings instead of
the full compose stack.
The admin account is created automatically using
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
(default:
.BR admin )
and
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL
(default:
.BR scd\-admin@fnal.gov ).
If a
.I db.sqlite3
file exists in the project root it is mounted into the container so
existing data is preserved across restarts.
.TP
.B \-\-build
Force a rebuild of the
.I scd\-reporting\-web
image before starting, even if an image already exists.
Passes the current git commit, date, and tag as build arguments so that
the
.B /about/
page shows the correct version.
Without this flag the image is only built when it does not exist.
.TP
.BI \-\-port " PORT"
Host port to bind in quick mode (default:
.BR 8000 ).
The container always listens on port 8000 internally; this option controls
the host-side mapping.
Has no effect in full stack mode (the compose file controls port mapping).
.TP
.B \-\-tail
After starting, tail the container or compose service logs in the
foreground.
Press
.B Ctrl\-C
to stop tailing; the containers continue running.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH MODES
.SS Full stack mode (default)
Runs
.B docker compose up \-d
with optional
.BR \-\-build .
The compose file starts three services:
.RS
.TP
.B db
PostgreSQL 16 database (
.IR postgres:16\-alpine ).
Data is persisted in a named Docker volume.
.TP
.B web
Django application served by Gunicorn.
Runs migrations and seeds the admin account on startup via the container
entrypoint.
.TP
.B caddy
Caddy 2 reverse proxy handling HTTPS termination and static file serving.
Obtains a certificate from Let's Encrypt automatically when
.B SCD_HOSTNAME
is set to a real public domain.
.RE
.PP
Requires
.BR DJANGO_SECRET_KEY ,
.BR POSTGRES_PASSWORD ,
and
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
in
.IR .env .
.SS Quick mode
Runs a single container named
.B scd\-quick
with SQLite storage and
.B scd_reporting.settings.dev
settings.
Suitable for image validation and one-off testing.
Secrets and optional feature flags are forwarded from the current environment
into the container as individual
.B \-e
arguments, avoiding Docker
.B \-\-env\-file
quote-handling issues.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following variables are read from the shell environment or
.IR .env .
.SS Full stack (required)
.TP
.B DJANGO_SECRET_KEY
Django cryptographic secret key.
.TP
.B POSTGRES_PASSWORD
Password for the PostgreSQL
.B scd
user.
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
Password for the initial
.B scd\-admin
account.
.SS Optional (both modes)
.TP
.B SCD_HOSTNAME
Public hostname (no scheme).
Sets the URL shown after startup and enables HTTPS via Caddy in full stack
mode.
Defaults to
.BR localhost .
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL
Email address for the initial admin account
(default:
.BR scd\-admin@fnal.gov ).
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Anthropic API key; enables the AI report summary feature.
.TP
.B GITHUB_APP_ID ", " GITHUB_APP_INSTALLATION_ID ", " GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY
GitHub App credentials for in-app bug report submission.
.TP
.B OIDC_PROVIDER_URL ", " OIDC_CLIENT_ID ", " OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET
OIDC SSO credentials; enable the Fermilab/CILogon sign-in button.
In quick mode, if
.B OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET_FILE
is set and the file exists the secret is read from the file and passed as
.BR OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET
directly (the file path is not mounted into the container).
.TP
.B GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID ", " GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET
Google OAuth2 credentials; enable the Google sign-in button.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .env
Optional key=value file in the project root loaded before argument defaults.
Copy from
.I .env.example
to get started.
Shell environment takes precedence over
.I .env
values.
.TP
.I docker/web/Dockerfile
Dockerfile used to build the
.I scd\-reporting\-web
image.
.TP
.I scripts/.scd\-docker.mode
Records the active mode
.RB ( compose
or the quick container name) so that
.BR stop\-docker (1)
can stop the right processes.
.TP
.I db.sqlite3
SQLite database in the project root.
Mounted read-write into the quick container when it exists.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start the full compose stack (first run — builds the image):
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-docker
.EE
.RE
.PP
Force a rebuild and tail the logs:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-docker \-\-build \-\-tail
.EE
.RE
.PP
Quick smoke test on port 9000:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-docker \-\-quick \-\-port 9000
.EE
.RE
.PP
Quick test with AI summary enabled:
.PP
.RS
.EX
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk\-ant\-... ./scripts/start\-docker \-\-quick
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stop\-docker (1),
.BR start\-scd\-reporting (1),
.BR build\-docker (1)
