.TH START\-SCD\-REPORTING 1 "2026-06-09" "SCD Reporting v1.0.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
start\-scd\-reporting \- install dependencies, migrate, and start the SCD Reporting development server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/start\-scd\-reporting
[\fB\-\-admin\-password\fR \fIPASS\fR]
[\fB\-\-anthropic\-key\fR \fIKEY\fR]
[\fB\-\-oidc\-provider\-url\fR \fIURL\fR]
[\fB\-\-oidc\-client\-id\fR \fIID\fR]
[\fB\-\-oidc\-secret\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-google\-client\-id\fR \fIID\fR]
[\fB\-\-google\-client\-secret\fR \fISECRET\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-prod\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-update\fR]
[\fB\-\-with\-tailwind\fR]
[\fB\-\-tail\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B start\-scd\-reporting
is the primary script for running SCD Reporting locally.
On each invocation it:
.IP 1. 4
Locates Python 3.12 or newer on the system PATH.
.IP 2. 4
Creates (or reuses) a virtual environment at
.I venv/
in the project root.
.IP 3. 4
Installs or updates Python dependencies from
.I requirements\-dev.txt
(skipped with
.BR \-\-no\-update ).
.IP 4. 4
Installs or updates Node dependencies for Tailwind CSS
(skipped if
.B npm
is not found or
.B \-\-no\-update
is given).
.IP 5. 4
Applies any pending Django database migrations.
.IP 6. 4
Seeds the taxonomy with default projects and categories.
.IP 7. 4
Creates or resets the admin account if
.B \-\-admin\-password
(or
.BR SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD )
is set.
.IP 8. 4
Starts the Django development server in the background and writes its PID to
.IR scripts/.scd\-reporting.pid .
.PP
The script is safe to run repeatedly.
If a server is already running it is stopped and restarted.
To stop the server without restarting it use
.BR stop\-scd\-reporting (1).
.PP
Environment variables are loaded from a
.I .env
file in the project root if one exists.
Variables already exported in the shell take precedence over
.I .env
values, which in turn take precedence over compiled-in defaults.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-admin\-password " PASS"
Password for the initial admin account
.RB ( scd\-admin@fnal.gov ).
Creates the account on the first run; resets the password on subsequent runs.
May also be supplied via the
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-\-anthropic\-key " KEY"
Anthropic API key that enables the AI report summary feature.
May also be supplied via the
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
environment variable.
Without this key the summary button returns an error in the UI;
all other features work normally.
.TP
.BI \-\-oidc\-provider\-url " URL"
OIDC provider discovery URL (e.g.\&
.IR https://keycloak.example.org/realms/myrealm/.well-known/openid-configuration ).
Setting this causes the OIDC sign-in button to appear on the login page.
May also be supplied via
.BR OIDC_PROVIDER_URL .
.TP
.BI \-\-oidc\-client\-id " ID"
OIDC client ID registered with the identity provider.
May also be supplied via
.BR OIDC_CLIENT_ID .
.TP
.BI \-\-oidc\-secret\-file " PATH"
Path to a file containing the OIDC client secret.
Using a file keeps the secret out of the process environment and shell history.
May also be supplied via
.BR OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET_FILE .
.TP
.BI \-\-google\-client\-id " ID"
Google OAuth2 client ID.
Setting both this and
.B \-\-google\-client\-secret
enables the Google sign-in button.
May also be supplied via
.BR GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID .
.TP
.BI \-\-google\-client\-secret " SECRET"
Google OAuth2 client secret.
May also be supplied via
.BR GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET .
.TP
.BI \-\-port " PORT"
TCP port for the development server (default:
.BR 8000 ).
.TP
.B \-\-prod
Bind to
.B 0.0.0.0
(all interfaces) instead of
.B 127.0.0.1
and activate
.B scd_reporting.settings.prod
unless
.B DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE
is already set.
Use this when running behind a reverse proxy on a VM or server.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-update
Skip the
.B pip
and
.B npm install
update steps.
Useful when network access is limited or a fast restart is needed.
.TP
.B \-\-with\-tailwind
Start the Tailwind CSS watcher alongside the application server.
The watcher rebuilds
.I theme/static/css/dist/styles.css
whenever source CSS or template files change, providing hot-reload
styling during frontend development.
Requires
.BR npm .
.TP
.B \-\-tail
After the server starts, tail the server log in the foreground.
Press
.B Ctrl\-C
to stop tailing; the server continues running.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
Admin account password (see
.BR \-\-admin\-password ).
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Anthropic API key (see
.BR \-\-anthropic\-key ).
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_SUMMARY_MODEL
Override the AI model used for report summaries
(default:
.BR claude\-sonnet\-4\-6 ).
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL
Custom Anthropic-compatible API base URL (e.g.\& a LiteLLM proxy).
.TP
.B OIDC_PROVIDER_URL
OIDC discovery URL (see
.BR \-\-oidc\-provider\-url ).
.TP
.B OIDC_CLIENT_ID
OIDC client ID (see
.BR \-\-oidc\-client\-id ).
.TP
.B OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET_FILE
Path to OIDC client secret file (see
.BR \-\-oidc\-secret\-file ).
.TP
.B GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID
Google OAuth2 client ID (see
.BR \-\-google\-client\-id ).
.TP
.B GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET
Google OAuth2 client secret (see
.BR \-\-google\-client\-secret ).
.TP
.B DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE
Override the Django settings module.
Defaults to
.B scd_reporting.settings.dev
unless
.B \-\-prod
is given, in which case it defaults to
.BR scd_reporting.settings.prod .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I venv/
Python virtual environment created or reused in the project root.
.TP
.I requirements\-dev.txt
Python dependencies (includes
.I requirements.txt
plus test tools) installed into the virtual environment.
.TP
.I theme/static_src/package.json
Node dependencies installed by
.BR npm\ install .
.TP
.I scripts/.scd\-reporting.pid
PID of the running Django development server.
.TP
.I scripts/.scd\-tailwind.pid
PID of the Tailwind CSS watcher (when started with
.BR \-\-with\-tailwind ).
.TP
.I scripts/logs/scd\-reporting.log
Server stdout/stderr log.
.TP
.I scripts/logs/scd\-tailwind.log
Tailwind watcher log (when started with
.BR \-\-with\-tailwind ).
.TP
.I .env
Optional file in the project root; key=value pairs loaded before argument
defaults are applied.
Shell environment variables take precedence over
.I .env
values.
.SH EXAMPLES
First-time setup, creating the admin account:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-scd\-reporting \-\-admin\-password secret
.EE
.RE
.PP
Restart quickly without updating dependencies:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-scd\-reporting \-\-no\-update
.EE
.RE
.PP
Start with AI summary and OIDC SSO enabled:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-scd\-reporting \\
    \-\-anthropic\-key sk\-ant\-... \\
    \-\-oidc\-provider\-url https://kc.example.org/realms/myrealm/.well-known/openid-configuration \\
    \-\-oidc\-client\-id my\-client \\
    \-\-oidc\-secret\-file /etc/scd/oidc.secret
.EE
.RE
.PP
Start on a non-default port and tail the log:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-scd\-reporting \-\-port 9000 \-\-tail
.EE
.RE
.PP
Reset the admin password:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/start\-scd\-reporting \-\-admin\-password newpassword \-\-no\-update
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stop\-scd\-reporting (1),
.BR bootstrap (1),
.BR build\-docker (1)
