.TH STOP\-SCD\-REPORTING 1 "2026-06-09" "SCD Reporting v1.0.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
stop\-scd\-reporting \- gracefully stop the SCD Reporting development server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/stop\-scd\-reporting
[\fB\-\-tail\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stop\-scd\-reporting
stops the Django development server (and Tailwind CSS watcher, if running)
that were started by
.BR start\-scd\-reporting (1).
.PP
The script reads the PID from
.I scripts/.scd\-reporting.pid
and sends
.B SIGTERM
to the process.
If the process does not exit within five seconds it is killed with
.BR SIGKILL .
The PID file is removed after a successful stop.
.PP
If the Tailwind CSS watcher is running (PID stored in
.IR scripts/.scd\-tailwind.pid )
it is also stopped.
.PP
If no PID file is found the script warns that the server may not be running
and exits without error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-tail
Print the last 20 lines of the server log
.RI ( scripts/logs/scd\-reporting.log )
before stopping the server.
Useful for a quick post-mortem when the server has exited unexpectedly.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I scripts/.scd\-reporting.pid
PID of the running Django development server written by
.BR start\-scd\-reporting (1).
Removed after the process is stopped.
.TP
.I scripts/.scd\-tailwind.pid
PID of the Tailwind CSS watcher written by
.BR start\-scd\-reporting (1)
when invoked with
.BR \-\-with\-tailwind .
Removed after the process is stopped.
.TP
.I scripts/logs/scd\-reporting.log
Server stdout/stderr log shown when
.B \-\-tail
is given.
.SH EXAMPLES
Stop the server:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/stop\-scd\-reporting
.EE
.RE
.PP
Show the last 20 log lines, then stop:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/stop\-scd\-reporting \-\-tail
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR start\-scd\-reporting (1),
.BR bootstrap (1)
