.TH STOP\-DOCKER 1 "2026-06-09" "SCD Reporting v1.0.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
stop\-docker \- stop SCD Reporting Docker containers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/stop\-docker
[\fB\-\-volumes\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stop\-docker
stops the SCD Reporting Docker containers that were started by
.BR start\-docker (1).
.PP
The script reads
.I scripts/.scd\-docker.mode
to determine which mode is active, then stops accordingly:
.TP
.B compose
Runs
.B docker compose down
(or
.B docker compose down \-v
when
.B \-\-volumes
is given) to stop and remove all compose services.
.TP
.B scd\-quick
Runs
.B docker rm \-f scd\-quick
to forcibly remove the single quick-mode container.
.PP
If
.I scripts/.scd\-docker.mode
does not exist, or if no containers matching the expected name or compose
project are found running, the script prints a warning and exits without
error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-volumes
Also remove Docker volumes when stopping the compose stack.
.B This permanently deletes the PostgreSQL database and all stored data.
Has no effect in quick mode (SQLite data is stored in
.I db.sqlite3
on the host, not in a volume).
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I scripts/.scd\-docker.mode
Written by
.BR start\-docker (1)
to record whether the compose stack or a quick container is active.
Contains either
.B compose
or
.BR scd\-quick .
Removed after a successful stop.
.TP
.I db.sqlite3
SQLite database in the project root used in quick mode.
Not removed by this script; delete it manually to reset quick-mode data.
.SH EXAMPLES
Stop the full compose stack:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/stop\-docker
.EE
.RE
.PP
Stop and wipe the database volumes (destructive):
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/stop\-docker \-\-volumes
.EE
.RE
.PP
Stop the quick-mode container (mode auto-detected from
.IR scripts/.scd\-docker.mode ):
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/stop\-docker
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR start\-docker (1),
.BR stop\-scd\-reporting (1)
