.TH UPDATE-OKD-PERMISSIONS 1 "2026-05-22" "SCD Reporting v0.1.0" "SCD Reporting"
.SH NAME
update-okd-permissions \- patch the Dockerfile with OpenShift/OKD-compatible file permissions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/update-okd-permissions.sh
[\fIDOCKERFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B update-okd-permissions.sh
modifies the web container Dockerfile so that the image runs correctly
on OpenShift / OKD clusters, which execute containers with an arbitrary
UID assigned by the platform rather than the UID specified in the
.B USER
instruction.
.PP
OpenShift requires that files inside the image are group-writable by
GID 0 (root group) rather than owned by a specific UID.
The script applies two changes:
.PP
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Adds
.B \-\-gid 0
to the
.B useradd
call so the runtime user belongs to the root group.
.IP \(bu 2
Replaces
.B "chown -R appuser:appuser /app"
with
.B "chgrp -R 0 /app && chmod -R g=u /app"
so every file is group-readable/writable for any UID the platform assigns.
.RE
.PP
The script is idempotent: if the OKD-compatible pattern is already
present it exits without making changes.
A timestamped backup of the original Dockerfile is written to
.B $TMPDIR
before any modifications are made.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I DOCKERFILE
Path to the Dockerfile to patch.
.br
Default:
.B docker/web/Dockerfile
(relative to the repository root).
.SH EXAMPLES
Patch the default Dockerfile:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/update-okd-permissions.sh
.EE
.RE
.PP
Patch an alternative Dockerfile:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./scripts/update-okd-permissions.sh docker/web/Dockerfile.prod
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR revert-okd-permissions (1),
.BR build-docker (1)
