.\" Man page for the seed_taxonomy Django management command
.\" scd-seed-taxonomy(1)
.TH SCD\-SEED\-TAXONOMY 1 "2026-05-05" "SCD Effort Reporting" "SCD Effort Reporting Commands"
.
.SH NAME
scd\-seed\-taxonomy \- seed the default projects and categories
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python manage.py seed_taxonomy
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B seed_taxonomy
is an idempotent Django management command that populates the
.I Project
and
.I Category
tables with the default Fermilab SCD taxonomy.
.PP
The command uses
.B get_or_create
for each record so it is safe to run multiple times: existing records
are left unchanged and no duplicates are created.
Records created by this command can be supplemented or modified through
the web interface at
.I /taxonomy/projects/
and
.I /taxonomy/categories/
(Administrator role required).
.PP
This command has no required arguments and reads no environment
variables.
It should be run once after the initial database migration when setting
up a new instance.
.
.SH PROJECTS
The following projects are created if they do not already exist:
.PP
.TS
tab(;) allbox;
lb lb lb
l l r.
Name;Short Code;Sort Order
DUNE;DUNE;10
NOvA;NOvA;20
MicroBooNE;uBooNE;30
CMS;CMS;40
LSST;LSST;50
.TE
.
.SH CATEGORIES
The following categories are created if they do not already exist:
.PP
.TS
tab(;) allbox;
lb lb lb
l l r.
Name;Short Code;Sort Order
Scientific;SCI;10
Operations;OPS;20
Outreach;OUT;30
Training;TRN;40
.TE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This command reads no environment variables.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All records were created or already existed.
.TP
.B non-zero
An unexpected database or configuration error occurred.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run taxonomy seeding after applying migrations:
.PP
.nf
    python manage.py migrate
    python manage.py seed_taxonomy
.fi
.PP
Run inside an already-running Docker container:
.PP
.nf
    docker compose exec web python manage.py seed_taxonomy
.fi
.PP
Run as part of a one-time setup sequence:
.PP
.nf
    python manage.py migrate
    python manage.py seed_taxonomy
    SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=s3cr3t python manage.py seed_admin
.fi
.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
The sort order controls the display order in dropdown menus throughout
the application.
Lower numbers appear first.
.IP \(bu 2
New projects and categories can be added at any time through the web
interface without re-running this command.
.IP \(bu 2
To deactivate a project or category (hide it from entry forms without
deleting historical data) use the
.I Active
toggle in the web interface.
Deactivated items remain attached to existing entries but are excluded
from new-entry dropdown menus.
.IP \(bu 2
Projects and categories cannot be deleted through the web interface
once entries reference them.
The foreign keys use
.I PROTECT
to prevent accidental data loss.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I apps/taxonomy/management/commands/seed_taxonomy.py
Source file for this command.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scd\-seed\-admin (1),
.BR python\-manage (1)
.PP
Django management commands documentation:
.I https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/django-admin/
.
.SH AUTHOR
Fermilab Scientific Computing Division
