.\" Man page for the seed_admin Django management command
.\" scd-seed-admin(1)
.TH SCD\-SEED\-ADMIN 1 "2026-05-05" "SCD Effort Reporting" "SCD Effort Reporting Commands"
.
.SH NAME
scd\-seed\-admin \- create the initial SCD administrator account
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python manage.py seed_admin
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B seed_admin
is an idempotent Django management command that bootstraps the first
administrator account for the SCD Effort Reporting application.
.PP
The command reads credentials from environment variables and creates a
superuser with the
.I Administrator
role.
If the target username already exists in the database the command exits
silently without making any changes.
If
.I SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
is not set the command prints a warning and exits without creating
anything.
.PP
Because the command is idempotent it is safe to include in deployment
scripts and container startup sequences; it is called automatically by
the Docker container entrypoint on every start.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_USERNAME
Username for the administrator account.
.br
Default:
.I scd-admin
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL
Email address for the administrator account.
This value is used as the login credential (the application uses
email-based authentication).
.br
Default:
.I scd-admin@fnal.gov
.TP
.B SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD
Password for the administrator account.
.B Required.
If this variable is empty or unset the command exits with a warning and
no account is created.
There is no default; the password must be supplied explicitly.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The account was created, or it already existed, or the password
environment variable was not set (warning printed).
.TP
.B non-zero
An unexpected database or configuration error occurred.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create the admin account with an inline password:
.PP
.nf
    SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=s3cr3t python manage.py seed_admin
.fi
.PP
Use a full set of environment variables:
.PP
.nf
    export SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_USERNAME=jane
    export SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL=jane@fnal.gov
    export SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=s3cr3t
    python manage.py seed_admin
.fi
.PP
In a Docker Compose environment the variables are typically supplied
via an
.I .env
file and the command is called from the container
.I CMD
entrypoint automatically.
No manual invocation is needed for standard deployments.
.PP
To run the command explicitly inside an already-running container:
.PP
.nf
    docker compose exec web python manage.py seed_admin
.fi
.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
The created account is a Django superuser and has the
.I Administrator
application role.
It can log in to both the Django admin interface
.RI ( /admin/ )
and the SCD Effort Reporting application.
.IP \(bu 2
After the initial deployment it is recommended to log in, change the
password through the application or Django admin, and — if local signup
is being disabled — set
.I SCD_DISABLE_LOCAL_SIGNUP=1
in the environment before restarting.
.IP \(bu 2
To create additional administrator accounts after deployment use the
.I /admin-users/
page in the web interface or the Django admin.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I apps/accounts/management/commands/seed_admin.py
Source file for this command.
.TP
.I .env
Docker Compose environment file where
.I SCD_INITIAL_ADMIN_*
variables are typically stored.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scd\-seed\-taxonomy (1),
.BR python\-manage (1)
.PP
Django management commands documentation:
.I https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/django-admin/
.
.SH AUTHOR
Fermilab Scientific Computing Division
