.\" Man page for scd-post-entry
.TH SCD\-POST\-ENTRY 1 "2026-06-02" "SCD Effort Reporting" "SCD Effort Reporting Commands"
.
.SH NAME
scd\-post\-entry \- interactively create a work entry via the SCD Activity Reporting API
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scd\-post\-entry
.RB [ \-c
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR url ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR email ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR password ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-cache ]
.RB [ \-\-session\-file
.IR file ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scd\-post\-entry
is an interactive command\-line utility that guides you through creating a
new work entry in the SCD Activity Reporting web application.  It submits
the entry via the application's REST API endpoint
.RI ( POST\ /api/entries/ ).
.PP
The tool prompts for all required and optional fields, then opens
.BR $EDITOR
for the multi\-line entry description.  A summary is displayed before
submission, and confirmation is required before the request is sent.
.PP
On first use the tool performs a full login and caches the resulting
session in
.I ~/.config/scd\-reporting/session.json
(mode 0600) so subsequent runs do not prompt for a password.  Use
.B \-\-no\-cache
to force re\-authentication.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  file ,\ \-\-config\  file
Path to the YAML configuration file.
.br
Default:
.I ~/.config/scd\-reporting/config.yaml
.TP
.BI \-u\  url ,\ \-\-url\  url
Base URL of the SCD Reporting instance,
e.g.\&
.IR https://scd\-reporting.fnal.gov .
Overrides the
.B url
config key and the
.B SCD_URL
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-e\  email ,\ \-\-email\  email
Login email address.
Overrides the
.B email
config key and the
.B SCD_EMAIL
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-p\  password ,\ \-\-password\  password
Login password.
Overrides the
.B password
config key and the
.B SCD_PASSWORD
environment variable.
Avoid passing passwords on the command line on shared systems; use the
config file or the interactive prompt instead.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cache
Force a full login even if a valid session cache exists.  The old
cache is overwritten on success.
.TP
.BI \-\-session\-file\  file
Path to the session cache file.
.br
Default:
.I ~/.config/scd\-reporting/session.json
.
.SH FIELDS
The tool prompts for the following fields in order:
.TP
.B Title
Short summary of the work item.
Required.
.TP
.B Project
Project slug or numeric ID (e.g.\&
.IR mu2e\-daq ).
Required.
See
.I /taxonomy/projects/
in the web UI for available slugs.
.TP
.B Category
Category slug or numeric ID.
Required.
See
.I /taxonomy/categories/
in the web UI.
.TP
.B Period kind
One of:
.BR today ,
.BR week ,
.BR fortnight ,
.BR month ,
.BR custom .
Default:
.BR week .
.TP
.B Period start / Period end
Reporting period dates in
.B YYYY\-MM\-DD
format.
Defaults are computed automatically from the chosen period kind
(e.g.\& the current calendar week for
.BR week ).
.TP
.B Group
Work group slug or ID.
Optional.
.TP
.B Lab priority
Lab priority slug or ID.
Optional.
.TP
.B Tags
Comma\-separated list of tag names.
Optional.
Tags that do not exist are created automatically.
.TP
.B Flags
.RS
.TP
.B Private
Hides the entry from most report views.
.TP
.B Critical
Marks the entry as critical work.
.TP
.B Highlight
Marks the entry as a highlight.  A star rating (0\(en5) is requested
when this flag is set.
.TP
.B Division head only
Restricts visibility to division heads and administrators.
.RE
.TP
.B Description
Free\-form Markdown text describing the work.
The
.B $EDITOR
(or
.BR $VISUAL )
environment variable controls which editor is launched.
Falls back to
.B vi
on Unix and
.B notepad
on Windows.
The editor opens with a standard template pre\-filled.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The default configuration file is
.IR ~/.config/scd\-reporting/config.yaml .
It is created automatically on first use if the directory exists.
Example:
.PP
.nf
    url:      https://scd\-reporting.fnal.gov
    email:    you@fnal.gov
    password: (optional — prompted if omitted)
.fi
.PP
Setting
.B password
in the config file is convenient but stores credentials in plain text.
The session cache is preferred for day\-to\-day use.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SCD_URL
Base URL of the SCD Reporting instance.
Overridden by
.BR \-\-url .
.TP
.B SCD_EMAIL
Login email.
Overridden by
.BR \-\-email .
.TP
.B SCD_PASSWORD
Login password.
Overridden by
.BR \-\-password .
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor launched for the description field.
.TP
.B VISUAL
Preferred editor; checked before
.BR EDITOR .
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Entry created successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Validation error, authentication failure, or network error.
The specific message is printed to stderr.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run with all settings in the config file:
.PP
.nf
    scd\-post\-entry
.fi
.PP
Override the URL for a dev instance:
.PP
.nf
    scd\-post\-entry \-u http://localhost:8000
.fi
.PP
Force a fresh login (e.g.\& after a password change):
.PP
.nf
    scd\-post\-entry \-\-no\-cache
.fi
.PP
Use a non\-default config file:
.PP
.nf
    scd\-post\-entry \-c ~/my\-scd\-config.yaml
.fi
.PP
Set the editor to nano for the description:
.PP
.nf
    EDITOR=nano scd\-post\-entry
.fi
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I scripts/scd\-post\-entry
Source file for this utility.
.TP
.I ~/.config/scd\-reporting/config.yaml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/scd\-reporting/session.json
Cached session credentials (mode 0600).
Delete this file to force re\-authentication.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scd\-seed\-admin (1),
.BR scd\-seed\-taxonomy (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR curl (1)
.PP
SCD Activity Reporting API documentation:
.I /api/
.
.SH AUTHOR
Fermilab Scientific Computing Division
